.. _ref_grantami_bomanalytics_bom_eco2301:

23/01 XML BoM types
===================

.. currentmodule:: ansys.grantami.bomanalytics.bom_types.eco2301


The models documented in this section are Python bindings for the Ansys Granta MI 23/01 XML schema.
Not all elements are required to define a valid BoM for analysis, and not all elements have an impact
on all types of analysis. For information on the relevant items for each analysis type,
see :ref:`ref_grantami_bomanalytics_api_index`.

Classes on this page are available in the module ``ansys.grantami.bomanalytics.bom_types.eco2301``.

The 23/01 XML schema is supported by MI Restricted Substances and Sustainability Reports 2024 R1 and later.

.. tip::
   This is not the latest version of the Granta MI BoM Schema. The
   :ref:`24/12 XML schema <ref_grantami_bomanalytics_bom_eco2412>` is backwards compatible with the 23/01 XML schema,
   but supports associating ``TransportStage`` and ``Location`` information with ``Part`` and ``Process`` objects. It is
   supported by MI Restricted Substances and Sustainability Reports 2025 R2 and later.

.. note::
   The following elements are defined in the 23/01 BoM schema but are not supported in this module:

   * ``NonMIPartReference`` on :class:`~.Part`
   * ``Annotations`` and ``AnnotationSources`` on :class:`~.BillOfMaterials`

   This module does not contain classes that correspond to these types and cannot serialize a BoM that includes these
   elements. It is still possible to deserialize an XML BoM that uses these elements, but these elements cannot be
   converted to Python objects. See :meth:`~ansys.grantami.bomanalytics._bom_helper.BoMHandler.load_bom_from_file` and
   :meth:`~ansys.grantami.bomanalytics._bom_helper.BoMHandler.load_bom_from_text` for more details.

.. versionchanged:: 2.3
   The types documented on this page have moved from ``ansys.grantami.bomanalytics.bom_types`` to
   ``ansys.grantami.bomanalytics.bom_types.eco2301``. They may still be imported from the original location for
   compatibility.

.. automodule:: ansys.grantami.bomanalytics.bom_types.eco2301
   :inherited-members:
   :member-order: bysource
   :exclude-members: BoMReader, BoMWriter
